Antidious Venomi


A short story by David.B
Edited by afyber



2012
\0There was once a creature who lived in his small home in the valley. Only a few people know of his existence. He is a being like us, but not the same. He can fight, talk, and solve problems. But he is also dangerous. None of the people who went looking for him ever came back.

\0So I set out to find the creature and record data about it in this journal. His valley is supposedly somewhere in the Golden Mountains. A place forbidden for anyone to enter. It has been said that the legendary golden fruit grows there and that just one bite from it will heal any wound.

\0That is just a legend though, and I am not here for it. Many people have come here for the fruit, and many have died trying. If the legends are true, I think the creature would have gotten to the fruit by now.

\0I set off into the mountains after saying my goodbyes. The trees here have pale green leaves and thick vines all around them. I have crossed into the forbidden zone, and this is my last chance to turn back. I kept my spirits high and my senses on high alert. I don't know what I will run into here.

\0It looks like someone left a bunch of rocks on the ground to make a trail, but since the ground is very mossy it's hard to make out where the trail leads. I have come up to what looks like a camp site. It seems to have been deserted for a long time. I have found a book that is dated from many years ago.

\0The person who wrote this was after the golden fruit. It says about how he'll be famous for his journey. I put down the book as the sky was turning dark. I chopped some wood and started a small fire. I fell asleep a few hours later and woke up at dawn. The clouds have dispersed and I felt a cold breeze in the air.

\0The bright sunlight is coming down as I set off to continue my journey. I have come across an apple tree. Nothing special about it, but there was something behind it. I couldn't believe my eyes, it's a large garden of fruits! I can see Apples, Bananas, Grapes, Pears, Cherries, Blueberries, and many others!

\0This garden of eden seems to be endless and somehow like a maze. I can feed my kin for generations with all of this food! I hear footsteps behind me. I have taken cover in some bushes. What is this thing? I've never seen it before. Is it the creature I'm searching for?

\0It's eyes have this cold dark brown color, his hide is only partly visible on his head, the rest seems to be bare. He also has this strange amulet on his chest. It looks fancy, it's made from iron, gold, and Amethyst. I can't seem to stop looking at it.

\0What is happening to me? It feels as though I want to move closer to it. I can't, I cannot blow my cover like this. It would be the end of me for sure. But as soon my leg lifted, the creature left with some fruit. I caught my breath and sat down for a minute.

\0I don't know why I didn't leave right there and then, I would have had a better chance at life, but I followed the creature. The sudden urge for that amulet made me continue. I caught up with the creature, following closely but silently. It looks like his home is ahead.

\0As he enters I go to the side and peak in through a window. He is in the kitchen with the fruit, It's not too big of a room. Some light is coming from the ceiling from a mysterious stone. From a large metal box he grabs some fish and pork. Places some of the fruit on his plate and puts the rest in the box.

\0He isn't wearing the amulet anymore. Creeping to the front door and looking in I see a horrifying sight. On the fireplace I see a head as a trophy piece. I went back out to hurl. I don't know what Monster would do such a sin. The beast comes back in from the back room, I cannot enter from the front.

\0Slowly I make my way to the back door. The door makes a quiet squeak as I open it, but the beast doesn't hear it. I look around for the amulet while trying not to make a sound. after a bit of searching I go into his room. He has a wood platform with knobs and tiny square lines and a picture on it.

\0It seems to be a female, probably from the same race. There is also a small peice of paper. It's a name, 'An-', before I could say it he comes into the room with a puzzled look on his face. Seeing me he draws a blade of iron from his side and charges me.

\0I dodge him and run for my life as fast as I can down the hallway and out the door. After a few steps out the door I feel a throbbing pain in my side. I looked down and saw blood flowing from me in huge amounts. By the tenth step I collapsed, Bleeding to death as all my cow brothers did before me.

\0With my last ounce of strength I drew his name out in my blood in the hopes that somebody will know of this terror.

\0'You can only make out a little.'


'Ant----- Venom-'



The end