The first major milestone is getting your first tool and find a set of stairs. Stairs down go underground, into the caves. There are 3 levels of cave systems, each with a different ore. The first level has iron, the second has gold (and water), and the third has gems (and lava). Mobs become more powerful the deeper you go. Lapis is also dispersed throughout the second and third floors.

On each level, you'll have to find stairs leading down to the next. This is made difficult, however, by the fact that your vision is severely limited underground, to the point where you can only see about 1 tile in any direction. You may use torches and lanterns to light your way, as well as light potions.

You may also notice, on the surface level, stairs leading up, into the sky, surrounded by strange rock. To break this rock, you need a gem pickaxe. So, in order to reach the sky, you must first get all the way down to the third underground level, where gems and lava reside, and make it back up.

If you manage to accomplish that, and craft a gem pickaxe, then you can break the rocks surrounding the stairs to the sky. There, you'll find the air wizard boss waiting for you.

After you defeat the air wizard, a message appears on screen, saying the dungeon is open. That refers to a certain staircase on the lava level going down, surrounded by purple obsidian bricks and walls. Only after defeating the air wizard can you destroy the obsidian and go down the stairs. The dungeon level you'll find is entirely composed of various obsidian tiles, with occasional small pockets of lava scattered about. There are no ores.

The enemies there are mostly of two types: snakes, and knights. Snakes drop scales, which can be used to craft green snake armor, and knights drop shards, which are needed to craft claymores (upgraded swords). Additionally there are spawn rooms, dungeon gardens, fancy lava pools, and rooms filled with grayed-out chests. These chests require keys to open and keys drop from the enemies of the floor. Within these chests are fancy powerful items to help fight the next boss.

The significance of these chests to the storyline is that you must find and unlock all of them. The amount is dependent on the map size and, of course, some random chance. If you press F3 while on the dungeon level, it will display how many locked chests remain. Upon unlocking the final chest, you will receive 5 golden apples.

You will eventually come across a room with a strange curious statue and can walk through its walls. If you tap the statue inside three times the obsidian knight will spawn. Soon you will notice the walls are solid and unbreakable until either the boss is defeated or the player dies. This boss has 3 attack patterns and 2 phases: Fire spiral and Fire spray for phase 1 and additionally dash for phase 2.

If you came prepared and/or was lucky and manage to defeat the obsidian knight, it will drop a big amount of shards and a new curious item. This item, obsidian heart, when used will increase your health by 5 per use, with a maximum of 30 total (4 obsidian hearts are needed). The boss only drops one, so for maximun hp you will need to respawn the boss with an obsidian poppet, craftable in the enchanter.

@@@

Back in the sky world are white ores called cloud ore, which you can mine. You can craft a Totem of Air from such ores, which will respawn the air wizard when used.

And of course, you may continue to play your world as usual afterwards.
